# Kroma `v0.3.0` Upgrade Instructions

This document provides instructions to upgrade from Kroma `v0.2.2` to `v0.3.0`.
For more details about `v0.3.0`, please refer the [release note](https://github.com/kroma-network/kroma/releases/tag/v0.3.0).

## Guides for upgrade

### Stop Kroma

For upgrade, stop your Kroma full node or validator.
```bash
# for full node
docker compose --profile fullnode down

# for validator
docker compose --profile validator down
```

### Common

You need to update your `.env` file.

First, update the tag of `kroma-geth`, `kroma-node`, and `kroma-validator` docker image.
```
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_GETH=v0.2.1
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_NODE=v0.3.0
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_VALIDATOR=v0.3.0
```

### Validator

For validator, several changes have been made in validator flags.

#### Changed

- `KROMA_VALIDATOR__OUTPUT_SUBMITTER_DISABLED` is changed to `KROMA_VALIDATOR__OUTPUT_SUBMITTER_ENABLED`.
  So if you run a validator as an output submitter, set `KROMA_VALIDATOR__OUTPUT_SUBMITTER_ENABLED=true`.
- `KROMA_VALIDATOR__CHALLENGER_DISABLED` is changed to `KROMA_VALIDATOR__CHALLENGER_ENABLED`.
  So if you run a validator as a challenger, set `KROMA_VALIDATOR__CHALLENGER_ENABLED=true`

Both flags are required, so you should add both to `.env` file.

- `KROMA_VALIDATOR__PROVER_GRPC` is changed to `KROMA_VALIDATOR__PROVER_RPC` since the prover is changed to use jsonRPC, not gRPC.
It is required to enable challenger as before.

#### Deleted

- `KROMA_VALIDATOR__OUTPUT_SUBMITTER_BOND_AMOUNT` is deleted.
  A fixed amount of bond is used for submission of output and challenge.
  So you can remove this flag in your `.env` file.

### Start Kroma

You can now start Kroma full node or validator with a new version.

```bash
# for full node
docker compose --profile fullnode up -d

# for validator
docker compose --profile validator up -d
```
