# Kroma `v2.0.0` Upgrade Instructions

This document provides instructions to upgrade from Kroma `v1.4.3` to `v2.0.0`.
For more details about `v2.0.0`, please refer the [release note](https://github.com/kroma-network/kroma/releases/tag/v2.0.0).

This upgrade mainly includes the transition of validator system from ETH-based to KRO-based. KRO-based validator system
is Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) system based on Kroma's governance token (KRO) and Kroma Guardian House (KGH) NFT.
For more details about the new validator system, please refer the [specification](https://specs.kroma.network/protocol/validator-v2/overview.html).

After the transition to the KRO-based validator system, existing validators will no longer be able to operate as
validators. To continue participating in the validator network, the validators should upgrade their node to `v2.0.0` and
register to the KRO-based validator system. The activation time of KRO-based validator system is as follows:

- Kroma Mainnet: after `Wed Oct 30 2024 05:20:00 UTC` (from output index `10107`)
- Kroma Sepolia: after `Tue Sep 10 2024 06:04:12 UTC` (from output index `129446`)

For a full guide to migrate to the KRO-based validator system, please check out [here](https://docs.kroma.network/builders/node-operator).
This document only includes instructions for upgrading the validator node, not how to register to the KRO-based
validator system.

This upgrade is optional for full node operators other than validators.

## Guides for upgrade

### Pull the latest version of kroma-up

First of all, pull the latest kroma-up and checkout to `v2.0.0`.

```bash
git fetch origin
git pull origin main
git checkout tags/v2.0.0
```

### Stop Kroma

For upgrade, stop your Kroma full node or validator.

```bash
# for full node
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile fullnode down

# for validator
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile validator down
```

### Common

You need to update your `.env` file.

First, update the docker image tag of `kroma-node` and `kroma-validator`.

```text
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_NODE=v2.0.0
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_VALIDATOR=v2.0.0
```

Also, for the KRO-based validator system, you need to add the new contracts addresses in `validator.env`. Please make
sure that the following fields are added. You can also refer the modified `validator.env` file for
[Kroma Sepolia](../envs/sepolia/validator.env) or [Kroma Mainnet](../envs/mainnet/validator.env).

For Kroma Sepolia,

```text
VALIDATOR_VALMGR_ADDRESS=0x18189f55FD29759CE51F13DCF0A9cCC1E41dFCC7
VALIDATOR_ASSETMANAGER_ADDRESS=0x5E9c8dB8f0aE21eA23eF53893dE2474E07D1CD91
```

For Kroma Mainnet,

```text
VALIDATOR_VALMGR_ADDRESS=0x232277d9672eEdd53c4B26C0F386C2Eb88DC7363
VALIDATOR_ASSETMANAGER_ADDRESS=0xa295310DE52b86F236A815AFb2f518F3C0F5A6D3
```

### Start Kroma

You can now start Kroma full node or validator node with a new version.

```bash
# for full node
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile fullnode up -d

# for validator
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile validator up -d
```
