# Kroma `v2.1.0+geth.v0.6.0` Upgrade Instructions

This document provides instructions to upgrade from Kroma `v2.0.0+geth.v0.5.4` to `v2.1.0+geth.v0.6.0`.
For more details about `v2.1.0+geth.v0.6.0`, please refer the [release note](https://github.com/kroma-network/kroma/releases/tag/v2.1.0).

This upgrade mainly includes the transition of fault proof from zkEVM to zkVM and the Kroma MPT upgrade. For more
details about the fault proof transition and Kroma MPT upgrade, please refer the [specification](https://specs.kroma.network/zk-fault-proof/zkvm-prover.html).

This upgrade will trigger migrator program at the kroma-geth to migrate the state trie from ZK Trie to Merkle Patricia
Tree. This may take over 36 hours in the worst case depending on the machine spec, so all full nodes and validators 
are recommended to complete the upgrade with a few extra days before the Kroma MPT time. 
The activation time of Kroma MPT upgrade is scheduled as below:

- Kroma sepolia: `Thu Jan 09 2025 05:00:00 UTC`
- Kroma mainnet: TBD

## Guides for upgrade

### Pull the latest version of kroma-up

First of all, pull the latest kroma-up and checkout to `v2.1.0`.

```bash
git fetch origin
git pull origin main
git checkout tags/v2.1.0
```

### Stop Kroma

For upgrade, stop your Kroma full node or validator.

```bash
# for full node
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile fullnode down

# for validator
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile validator down
```

### Common

You need to update your `.env` file.

First, update the docker image tag of `kroma-geth`, `kroma-node` and `kroma-validator`.

```text
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_GETH=v0.6.0
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_NODE=v2.1.0
IMAGE_TAG__KROMA_VALIDATOR=v2.1.0
```

Also, additional fields are added to `rollup.json`. Please check your `rollup.json` and make sure that the following
fields are added appropriately. You can also refer the modified [`rollup.json`](../config/sepolia/rollup.json).

For Kroma sepolia,

```json
{
  "kroma_mpt_time": 1736398800
}
```

For the zkVM fault proof, you need to add new RPC URLs and update the variables in `validator.env`. Please make
sure that the following fields are added. You can also refer the modified `validator.env` file for
[Kroma Sepolia](../envs/sepolia/validator.env) or [Kroma Mainnet](../envs/mainnet/validator.env).

- `VALIDATOR_CHALLENGER_POLL_INTERVAL` is changed to `VALIDATOR_CHALLENGE_POLL_INTERVAL`.
- `VALIDATOR_FETCHING_PROOF_TIMEOUT` is changed to `VALIDATOR_CHALLENGER_ZKEVM_NETWORK_TIMEOUT`.
- `VALIDATOR_PROVER_RPC` is changed to `VALIDATOR_CHALLENGER_ZKEVM_PROVER_RPC`, and deprecated after Kroma MPT time.
- `VALIDATOR_CHALLENGER_ZKVM_PROVER_RPC` and `VALIDATOR_CHALLENGER_WITNESS_GENERATOR_RPC` is added. So if you run 
  a challenger, set the RPC URLs for the prover and witness generator.

If you run a challenger, please make sure that you set up the prover-proxy and witness-generator using 
this [repository](https://github.com/kroma-network/kroma-sp1-prover), and add the following fields in your `.env`.

```text
KROMA_VALIDATOR__ZKVM_PROVER_PROXY_RPC=
KROMA_VALIDATOR__ZKVM_WITNESS_GENERATOR_RPC=
```

If you run an archive node or a validator node, you need to set the `KROMA_GETH__HISTORICAL_RPC` as follows, 
for retrieving accurate data of pre-MPT blocks after Kroma MPT time.

For Kroma sepolia,

```text
KROMA_GETH__HISTORICAL_RPC=https://api-historical.sepolia.kroma.network
KROMA_GETH__DISABLE_MPT_MIGRATION=false
```

Then, you need to add the following variable at `geth.env`. You can also refer the modified `geth.env` file for
[Kroma Sepolia](../envs/sepolia/geth.env).

```text
HISTORICAL_RPC=${KROMA_GETH__HISTORICAL_RPC}
DISABLE_MIGRATION=${KROMA_GETH__DISABLE_MPT_MIGRATION}
```

Optionally, you may choose not to proceed with the MPT upgrade through the migrator by setting the following 
variable as true as follows in your `.env`.

```text
KROMA_GETH__DISABLE_MPT_MIGRATION=true
```

This will temporarily trigger the halt of geth at the Kroma MPT time. It is recommended to deactivate the P2P 
connections in this period. Afterward, you can resume the node by syncing it with the post-MPT snapshot that will be 
provided shortly after the Kroma MPT time. 

If you run a challenger, it is recommended to turn off the prover-proxy that is used previously used for generating 
zkEVM proof after Kroma MPT time. Then you may remove the URL at `KROMA_VALIDATOR__PROVER_RPC` in your 
validator `.env` file.

### Start Kroma

You can now start Kroma full node or validator node with a new version.

```bash
# for full node
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile fullnode up -d

# for validator
docker compose -f docker-compose-<network>.yml --profile validator up -d
```
